[Music]
fifteen examples of Japanese etiquette
that will drive you crazy have you ever
dreamt of visiting Japan seriously who
hasn't it is famous for its high speed
trains colorful cherry blossoms and
kimonos yummy sushi and incredible
etiquette rules apparently there is a
ceremony and a set of rules for even the
most routine things in the Land of the
Rising Sun we've put together some
mind-blowing rules of courtesy from
Japan breaking them would seriously
offend your Japanese friends or
colleagues from money envelopes to the
degrees of bowing make sure not to miss
any of these number 15 addressing people
[Music]
to address people by name is not enough
in Japan our usual miss and mister last
names won't work either
and even the respectful title sean is
only the tip of the iceberg there are
actually more appropriate suffixes for
addressing or referring to different
people kun a less formal honorific than
the neutral Sun it approximately means
friend Chun a diminutive suffix people
mostly use for children female family
members lovers and close friends sama
the most respectful version Lord
honorable it was used to refer to Lords
and deities nowadays it's sometimes used
to express sarcasm we love this one
because who doesn't love sarcasm senpai
is for addressing elder colleagues or
schoolmates kohai is the opposite of
senpai sensei this one you probably know
it is used for addressing teachers
doctors scientists politicians and other
authority figures
she for formal writing imagine mixing
them up and referring to your Japanese
boss with Chung drama drama
exchanging business cards when was the
last time you gave someone am a sheet oh
you have never ever okay may she is
nothing bad or offensive it is what a
business card is called in Japanese you
just hand it out and safe it was a
pleasure meeting you right not in Japan
exchanging business cards is a whole
ritual here's what you need to do make
sure your cards front side is facing
your counterpart offer it with both
hands if your rank is lower than your
partner's hold the card lower than they
do if you were given a business card put
it on a card holder and take a few
seconds to look at it don't forget to
bow if you haven't got a card holder
it's a disaster it's a far cry from what
we have just putting business cards in
our pocket giving praise imagine you are
working at or with the Japanese company
one of your colleagues has done
something outstanding his or her ideas
just helped the company make millions or
maybe he or she worked day and night to
finish that important project and meet
the deadline would you say they did
great in front of everyone else click
like if so well you could do that but
the person you described as a bright
mind and a very loyal professional would
feel embarrassed the Japanese believe
that you can easily break a single arrow
but not ten in a bundle in other words
group solidarity is much more important
than individual success to them so if
you want to give praise to someone say
their team did a great job
number 12 punctuality timekeeping means
so much to the Japanese they are
surrounded by clocks
every Park store and even many of the
billboards have clocks in them when a
train is one minute late the railway
company will make an announcement with
their sincere apologies the driver of a
bullet high-speed train is not expected
to stay more than fifteen seconds off
schedule so don't be surprised if you
have a meeting a real or an online one
scheduled with your Japanese colleagues
and they start messaging you asking if
everything is all right with you when
you are one minute late imagine what it
torture it must be for a Japanese person
in let's say Italy where life is more
relaxed and a few minutes could mean a
couple of hours in an elevator it turns
out that even here there are informal
but clear rules if you are the first to
enter an empty elevator you become the
elevator captain and you should stand
close to the control panel you'll need
to hold the door open until everyone has
entered the elevator repeat so for each
floor at which the elevator stops you
must also be the last to leave and you
need to do everything very quickly if
you are a tourist in Japan try not to be
the first to enter an elevator unless
you really want to be the captain the
position is not paid though and you
don't even get a cool captain's hat
number ten Subway's on the subway there
are some restrictive rules the Japanese
are expected to follow talking is not
allowed on the phone as well and it's
impolite to stare at others it's not
customary to give up your seat for old
people even if they can barely stand
there are special seats marked with the
sign for them as well as for disabled
people and pregnant woman you can't take
those seats
if you don't belong to those categories
touching in Japan it's rude to look
people in the eyes let alone touch them
this country is not very large so every
Japanese person respects the personal
space of others if you visit Japan don't
touch people kissing in public will also
give you quite a few angry looks before
1945 it even was considered a violation
of public order number 8 keeping it
clean the Japanese are obsessed with
punctuality and cleanliness taxi drivers
wear white gloves face masks protect
people from germs
there are mouthwash fountains in public
places to keep your breath fresh there
are moist towels at every restaurant to
keep your hands clean without touching
any taps if you visit a Japanese home
prepare to take your shoes off before
you enter you will get slippers instead
don't be surprised to get an extra pair
of slippers to put on before you go to
the bathroom you will take them off
again as you come back to your seat and
if you see a tatami which is kind of
like a mat remember there are no
slippers for it at all you can only step
on it with your socks or with bare feet
seven eating outside there are lots of
fun foods you will definitely want to
try in Japan from bento boxes which can
come in a super fancy design - ramen and
whatnot at the Atty stalls one thing to
remember here is that you can't bring
your own food or drinks to the stall
which makes sense and you can't occupy
your table for too long as there are
other people waiting the same rule works
in parks and public spaces yes
it is considered bad manners to sit in
one place slowly enjoying your meal or
life in general there is a good chance
others want your spot on a busy day more
than that there are some public open
spaces where eating and drinking is
forbidden altogether
eating while walking is also not a thing
because Akai Ichi dosa which means one
thing at a time if you still want to try
to eat while walking be prepared to
carry your trash around before you find
a trash can this is a rather difficult
task in Japan a lot of tourists fail at
it and just litter all over the place
which is a no-no for the Japanese
understandable right alcoholic drinks
when the Japanese drink the social
hierarchy totally breaks down and they
drink really heavily a local professor
can drink with his students and they
will then drag him home an exemplary
clerk who vows to his business partner
during the day can get drunk at a
karaoke bar and vomit on his suit and
this is normal
interestingly enough when they also burr
up they will behave just as if nothing
happened in Japan what happens in a
boozy session stays in a boozy session
one four five money the Japanese have a
strange attitude toward money for some
reason they are embarrassed to show it
in public therefore money envelopes
decorated in a traditional manner are
very popular here and if you haven't got
such an envelope you'll have to wrap the
money in a piece of paper before giving
it to anyone of course
don't need to do so at supermarkets but
you still have to consider this rule you
can't hand your money to the cashier
only put it in the cash tray and it's
all for the sake of the protection of
personal space the art of sitting
properly to sit by folding one's legs
underneath one size is called size'
and the Japanese sit on the floor only
in this way they feel comfortable
sitting sizes style as if in an armchair
but if you are not accustomed to it your
feet become numb within a couple of
minutes if you are a tourist or a senior
and spread out your legs will certainly
get away with it and no one will say
anything but it would be unimaginably
inappropriate for a Japanese person to
sit this way number three gifts in Japan
the culture of giving gifts is very
strong and there are two special
gift-giving seasons each year o
coogan and summer and all ceiba and
winter in many countries it is customary
to open a gift at once in Japan to sign
up greed and impatience besides what if
the gift giver is embarrassed about
their modest gift and notices a shade of
discontent coming over your face like a
wind and the reeds by the way do you
think flowers are a good gift click like
itself you have to be very careful if
you want to give someone flowers in
Japan lilies lotus blossoms camellias
and any white flowers in general are
reserved for funerals
potted plants will not be appreciated
because of superstitions anything in a
set of four is believed to bring bad
luck and number nine is considered
unlucky as well so many things to
remember not to embarrass yourself
number two bowing the art of bowing is
so important in this country that
children learn it at an early age
imagine this there are many different
ways to bow in Japan
standing sitting and female and male
variants here are some of them the
greeting valve at Shaku of 15 degrees is
for people of equal business or social
ring the respectful bow ka of 30 degrees
is about for a teacher or a boss the
deeply reverent found site Caray a
forty-five degrees should be used if you
apologize or see the Emperor the begging
for your life bow is probably only used
nowadays if you have done something
really terrible of course
foreigners are not expected to bow but
the Japanese will be pleased if you
return a bow number one taking leave in
Japan a customer or business partner is
almost a god and is treated with
incredible respect when they leave the
whole company follows them to the door
or elevator and keeps bowing until the
doors are closed it's very inconvenient
if this happens in a business center
with several such delegations crowding
at elevators at the same time besides
foreign customers can be embarrassed the
Japanese of the new generation believe
that this is a little bit too much and
often ignore this ritual who knows
what's going to happen to the
traditional Japanese etiquette in the
coming centuries
which of these etiquette rules sound
like the craziest to you or maybe there
are some you wouldn't mind following
yourself share your thoughts in the
comment section hit the like button and
subscribe to our Channel
there are more fun videos on the way